Hi and welcome back. There are
few deep learning program
frameworks that can help
you be much more
efficient in how you
develop and use deep
learning algorithms.
One of these frameworks
is TensorFlow.
What I hope to do in
this video is step
through with you the
basic structure of
a TensorFlow program
so that you know how
you could use TensorFlow to
implement such programs,
implements neural
networks yourself.
Then after this video,
I'll leave you to dive into
some more of the details and gain
practice programming
with TensorFlow
in this week's program exercise.
This week's program exercise
does require a law extra time.
Please do plan or budget for
a little bit more
time to complete it.
As a motivating problem,
let's say that you have
some cost function J that
you want to minimize.
For this example,
I'm going to use
this highly simple cost function,
J of w equals w squared
minus 10w plus 25.
That's the cost function.
You might notice that
this function is actually
w minus five squared.
If you expand out this quadratic,
you get the expression above.
The value of w that
minimizes this,
is w equals five.
But let's say we
didn't know that,
and you just have this function.
Let us see how you can
implement something in
TensorFlow to minimize this.
Because a very similar structure,
a program can be used to
train neural networks
where you can have
some complicated cost
function J of wb
depending on all the parameters
of your neural network.
Then similarly, you build a use
TensorFlow to automatically try
to find values of w and
b that minimize
this cost function,
but let's start with the
simpler example on the left.
Here I am in Python in
my Jupyter Notebook.
In order to startup TensorFlow,
you type import NumPy
or NumPy as NP,
import TensorFlow as TF.
This is idiomatic.
This is what pretty
much everyone tags
exactly to import
TensorFlow as TF.
Next thing you want
to do is define
the parameter W. Intensive though
you're going to use tf.variable
to signify that this is a
variable initialize it to zero,
and the type of the variable is
a floating point number,
dtype equals tf.
float 32, says a TensorFlow
floating-point number.
Next, let's define
the optimization algorithm
you're going to use.
In this case, the
Adam optimization
algorithm, optimizing equals
tf.keras.optimizers.Adam.
Let's set the
learning rate to 0.1.
Now we can define
the cost function.
Remember the cost function was w
squared minus 10w plus 25.
Certainly write that down.
The cost is w squared
minus 10w plus 25.
The great thing
about TensorFlow is
you only have to
implement forward prop,
that is you only have
to write the code to
compute the value of
the cost function.
TensorFlow can
figure out how to do
the backprop or do the
gradient computation.
One way to do this is
to use gradient tape.
Let me show you the syntax
with tf.GradientTape as tape,
computes the causes follows.
The intuition behind
the name gradient tape
is by an analogy to the
old-school cassette tapes,
where Gradient Tape will
record the sequence of
operations as you're computing
the cost function in
the forward prop step.
Then when you play
the tape backwards,
in backwards order,
it can revisit the order of
operations in reverse order,
and along the way, compute
backprop and the gradients.
Now let's define a training
step function to loop over.
We're going to define
a single training step
as this function.
In order to carry out one
iteration of training,
you have to define what are
the trainable variables.
Trainable variables is just
a list with only w. We are
then going to compute
the gradients
with the tape cost
trainable variables.
Having done this, you can now
use the optimizer to apply
the gradients and
the gradients are
grads and trainable variables.
The syntax we are going to use,
is we're actually going
to use the zip functions,
built-in Python function to
take the list of gradients,
to take the lists are
trainable variables and
pair them up so that
the gradients and zip
the function just takes two lists
and pairs up the
corresponding elements.
I'm going to type print
w here just to print
the initial value of w
we've not actually
run train_step yet.
Hopefully I've no syntax errors.
W is initially the value of 0,
which is what we have
initialized it to.
Now let's run one step
of our little learning algorithm
and print the new value of w,
and now it's increased a little
bit from 0 to about 0.1.
Now let's run 1000 iterations
of our train_step.
If I arrange 1000
train step print W,
let's see what happens.
Run pretty quickly.
Now W is nearly
five which we knew was the
minimum of this cost function.
Isn't that cool? We just
specify the cost function.
Didn't have to take
derivatives and TensorFlow,
figured out how to
minimize this for us.
I hope this gives you a sense of
the broad structure of
a TensorFlow program.
As you do this week's
program exercise
and play more with
TensorFlow code yourself,
some of these functions
that I just used
here will become more familiar.
Just a couple things to notice,
w is the parameter
you want to optimize.
That's why we declared
w as a variable.
All we had to do was use
a GradientTape to record
the order of the sequence of
operations needed to
compute the cost function,
and that was the only
problem and TensorFlow could
figure out automatically
how to take
derivatives with respect
to the cost function.
That's why in TensorFlow,
you basically had to only
implement the fore prop step,
and it will figure out how to
do the gradient computation.
Now, there's one more feature
of TensorFlow that I
wanted to show you.
In the example we
went through so far,
the cost function is
a fixed function of the
parameter or the variable
w. But what are the function
you want to minimize
is a function of not just w,
but also a function of
your training step.
Unless you have some
training data x,
and x or x, and y,
and you're training a
neural network with
a cost function
depends on your data,
x or x and y,
as well as the parameters
w. How do you get
that training data into
a TensorFlow program?
Let's go through another version
of how to implement all this.
I'm still going to define
w as the variable.
Also I'm going to
add them optimizer,
but now I'm going to define
x as a list of numbers as
array and I'm going to plug
in 1 negative 10 and 25.
This will be another float 32.
These three numbers,
1 negative 10 and 25,
will play the role of
the coefficients of
the cost function.
You can think of x as
being like data that
controls the coefficients of
this quadratic cost function.
Let me now define
the cost function which will
minimize as same as before,
except that now I'm going
to write x of 0 times w
plus x of 1
times w plus x2.
This is the same cost
function as the one above,
except that the coefficients
are now controlled by
this little piece of
data x that we have.
Now this cost function computes
exactly the same cost
function as you had above,
except that this little
piece of data in
the array x controls
the coefficients of the
quadratic cost function.
Now, let me write print
w this should do nothing
because w is still 0,
is just initial value.
But if you then use
the optimizer to take
one step of the
optimization algorithm,
then let's print double
again and see if that works.
Great, now this has
taken one step of
Adam Optimization and so
w is again roughly 0.1.
This syntax, optimizer dot
minimize cost function,
and then then list
of variables W,
that is a simpler
alternative piece of syntax,
or that's the same thing as
these lines up above with
the gradients [inaudible]
and apply gradients.
Now that we have a single
training set implementer,
let's put the whole
thing in a loop.
Training, X, W optimizer,
define the cost function
within the scope
of this function,
and then for I in the range 1000,
lets run a thousand
iterations and
then lets run W.
Lets see what that does.
There you go, and now W is
nearly at the minimum set,
roughly the value of five.
Hopefully this gives you a sense
of what TensorFlow can do,
and the thing that makes
it so powerful is,
all you need to do is specify
how to compute the cost function,
and then it takes
derivatives and it can apply
an optimizer with
pretty much just one
or two lines of codes.
Here's the code again, and in
case some of these functions of
variables still seem a little
bit mysterious to you,
they will become more familiar
after you've practiced with it
a couple of times by
working through the
programming exercise.
What is this code really doing?
Let's focus on this equation.
The heart of the
TensorFlow program
is something to compute the cost,
and then TensorFlow
automatically figures out
the derivatives and how
to minimize the cost.
What this line of code
is doing is allowing
TensorFlow to construct
a computation graph.
What a computation graph
does is the following,
it takes X (0) and it takes W,
and W gets squared.
There's W squared and then X (0)
and W squared can
multiply together to
give X (0) times W
squared and so one
through multiple steps
until eventually,
this gets built up to
compute the cost function.
I guess the last step
would have been adding
in that last coefficient X (2).
The nice thing about
TensorFlow is that by
implementing base
the four a prop,
through this computation graph,
TensorFlow will
automatically figure out
all the necessary
backward calculations.
It'll automatically
be able to figure out
all the necessary backward steps
needed to implement back-prop.
Isn't that nice?
That's why you don't
need to explicitly
implement back-prop,
TensorFlow figures
it out for you.
This is one of the
things that makes
the programe frameworks
help you become really
efficient and there are
also a lot of things
you can change with
just one line of codes.
For example, if you
don't want to use
the Adam Optimizer and you
want to use a different one,
then just change this one line of
code and you can quickly
swap it out for a different
optimization algorithm.
All of the popular
modern deep learning
programming frameworks
support things like these and
it makes it much easier to
develop even pretty
complex neural networks.
I hope that gave you a sense of
the typical structure of
a TensorFlow program.
To recap material from this week,
you saw how to systematically
organize the hyperparameter
search process.
You also saw batch
normalization and how you
can use that to speed up your
neural network training.
We also chatted about
deep learning and
programming frameworks,
and you learned about TensorFlow.
I hope that you go on and
try out and enjoy this
week's programming exercise,
which will help you to gain
even greater familiarity
with these ideas.